# Child langage analyser
# Task 1: Handling with File Contents and Preprocessing
In the ﬁrst task, you will begin by reading in all the transcripts of the given dataset, for both the SLI and TD groups. We will then conduct a number of pre-processing tasks to extract only the relevant contents or texts needed for analysis in the subsequent tasks (Task 2 and 3) in this assignment. Upon completing the pre-processing tasks, each of the cleaned transcript should be saved as an individual output ﬁle. This would be a more eﬃcient approach whenever we need to manipulate the cleaned dataset without having to repeat the pre-processing task.
As mentioned earlier, for the purpose of this assignment, the data required for processing and analysis is the narrative produced by the children, which are those statements (or lines) indicated by the label of ‘*CHI:’ in the transcripts. The ﬁrst step is that, for each original transcript, extract only the statements which are preﬁxed or begin with ‘*CHI:’. (Note that there are some statements that extend to the next line, you should ensure that you take those into account.)
The next step is to perform a set of pre-processing or ﬁltering tasks. We want to remove certain words (generally referred as tokens) in each statement that consist of some CHAT symbols as either preﬁxes or suﬃxes, but retaining certain symbols and words for analysis in Task 2. For this part of the implementation, you should consider splitting each statement into a list of words or tokens before you begin with the ﬁltering process.
Below is a list of symbols that you should ﬁlter oﬀ from each of the child statements extracted.
(a) Remove those words that have either ‘[’ as preﬁx or ‘]’ as suﬃx1 but retain these three symbols: [//], [/], and [*]2
Example: Before ﬁltering: *CHI: then [/-] the doctor give the [/] money to the man . After ﬁltering: then the doctor give the [/] money to the man .
(b) Retain those words that have either ‘<’ as preﬁx or ‘>’ as suﬃx but these two symbols should be removed
Example: Before ﬁltering: *CHI: <he> [/] <he> [/] he hold it . After ﬁltering: he [/] he [/] he hold it .
(c) Remove those words that have preﬁxes of ‘&’ and ‘+’
Example: Before ﬁltering: *CHI: &=sighs <and instead the> [//] and then the giraﬀe got it and gave it to the elephant . After ﬁltering: and instead the [//] and then the giraﬀe got it and gave it to the elephant .
(d) Retain those words that have either ‘(’ as preﬁx or ‘)’ as suﬃx but these two symbols should be removed
Example: Before ﬁltering: *CHI: and then (.) the little (.) giraﬀe is crying because it (i)s sinking . After ﬁltering: and then (.) the little (.) giraﬀe is crying because it is sinking .
Note: The ‘(’ symbol could appear as an inﬁx, i.e. appears in between a word — you should also remove it from the word or token that it is attached to. However, you should not remove the symbol of ‘(.)’ as this should be retained for data analysis.
Finally, once you have completed with the ﬁltering process for all the unwanted symbols, you should now save each of the cleaned child transcripts as an individual output ﬁle. You should produceaseparateoutputﬁleforeachcleanedtranscriptandeachstatementshouldbewritten as a separate line in the output ﬁle. You may also want to organise your cleaned dataset into two groups: save the cleaned SLI transcripts under a folder named “SLI_cleaned”, and the cleaned TD transcripts under another new folder named “TD_cleaned”.
Note: You should name your program for this ﬁrst task as “task1_StudentID.py”.
  
  
  
# Task 2: Building a Class for Data Analysis
The second task is about collating the required data for analysis. The main task is to produce a number of statistics for the two groups of children transcripts. These statistics are those that might serve as good indicators for distinguishing between the children with SLI and the typically developed (TD) children.
The statistics for each of child transcript that we are interested in are: • Length of the transcript — indicated by the number of statements • Size of the vocabulary — indicated by the number of unique words • Number of repetition for certain words or phrases — indicated by the CHAT symbol [/] • Number of retracing for certain words or phrases — indicated by the CHAT symbol [//] • Number of grammatical errors detected — indicated by the CHAT symbol [*]3 • Number of pauses made — indicated by the CHAT symbol (.)
Note: Since the length of each child transcript is measured by the number of statements, the end of each statement can be determined based on the following punctuation marks: either a full stop ‘.’, a question mark ‘?’, or an exclamation mark ‘!’.
The implementation of this analyser class should include at least the following methods (you may implement additional methods if needed): • __init__(self): This is the constructor required for creating instances of this class. You should deﬁne a data structure based on your choice of data type for storing each of the required statistics (data ﬁelds) as the instance variables in the constructor. • __str__(self): Re-deﬁne this method to present your data (the instance variables) in a readable format. You should return a formatted string in this method. • analyse_script(self, cleaned_file): This is the method that performs the analysis on a given cleaned script. This method should accept the cleaned script as the argument, and attempt to extract the required data for analysis — all the six statistics of interest (as mentioned above). The extracted data should be stored in the data structures (i.e. instance variables) deﬁned in the constructor.
Hint: You would construct at least one object of this analyser class for each child group, i.e. one object for the SLI group and one object for the TD group.
Note: You should name your program for this second task as “task2_StudentID.py”.


# Task 3: Building a Class for Data Visualisation
In the last task, you will implement a class to visualise the statistics collected in Section 2.3 (Task 2) as some form of graphs. The implementation of this visualiser class should make use of the external Python packages, such as NumPy, SciPy, Pandas, and/or Matplotlib in order to create the suitable graphs for comparing the statistics collected for the two groups of children transcripts. (We are suggesting bar charts here; you may choose any other types of graph that deemed appropriate.)
The implementation of this visualiser class should include the following methods (you may create additional methods if needed):
• __init__(self, data): This is the constructor required for creating instances of this class. This method should take as an argument a list that contains all the statistics to be visualised and store them in an appropriate structure. Your choice of data type or data structure should at least allow you to represent the statistics in a tabular format, where the columns denote the statistic types and the rows denote the statistic counts of each child transcript. • compute_averages(self): This method returns the average or mean of the six statistics for each child group (i.e. both the SLI and TD groups). • visualise_statistics(self): This method should construct the suitable graph(s) to demonstrate the mean diﬀerence between the two groups (SLI vs.TD) for each of the six statistics, for comparison purposes. (You may construct more than one graph if you think that is the best way to present the statistics.)
Hint: You would construct at least one object of this visualiser class for each child group, i.e. one object for the SLI group and one object for the TD group.
Note: You should name your program for this ﬁnal task as “task3_StudentID.py”.
